<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>About/Methods Page</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styling.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>An Analysis of the Constitutions of Former Soviet Union States</h1>
        <div class="nav-bar">
            <ul>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="about-page.xhtml">About</a></li>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="constitution-page.xhtml">Constitutions</a></li>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="analysis-page.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="conclusion-page.xhtml">Conclusions</a></li>
            </ul>
        </div>
        <section class="Background">
            <h2>Background</h2>
            <hr />
            <p>The fall of the Soviet Union, a hegemonic cultural and political power in Europe and
                Asia, produced a veritable explosion of states that rose from its ashes. These
                fifteen states, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan,
                Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
                and Uzbekistan preceded their socialists republics and are internationally
                considered the successors of their corresponding Union Republics and not the Soviet
                Union. The three Baltic states, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, prioritized integrating
                into the international community, which clashed with the near-total disengagement
                with the Russian-dominated post-Soviet sphere, and eventually joined the European
                Union (EU) and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The forms of
                governments of the new states ranges from dominant-party to parlimentan to unitary
                presidential systems. <!--Russian President Vladimir
                Putin has still dictated the Eastern region (Belarus, Moldova, and Ukraine) to be
                under Russia’s “sphere of influence."--> Economic recessions that
                followed the USSR’s dissolution marked a period of the fall of the Gosplan, the
                state planning agency responsible for economic planning, and the rapid embracement
                of market economic policies. This resulted in “shock therapy” policies in the early
                1990s, where trade liberalization, price liberalization, and privatization triggered
                a drop in GDP and budget cuts towards social programs like education and healthcare.
                Therefore, some common trends found in the original constitutions drafted for each
                state was molded by this acceptance of a liberal economy, with instituions like the
                central bank and private property explicitly mentioned as independent to the state
                institions. Pairing this with social policies, privatization and liberalization
                formed the foundations of citizens’ liberties within each constitution. Our
                analysis, then, is an evaluation of the commitments and prioties within the first
                sections of the constitutions of these post-Soviet republics and, in turn, how those
                commitments have been upheld in the following decades.</p>
        </section>
   
        <section class="Methods">
            <h2>Methods</h2>
            <p>
                For this project, our team chose to analyze just the preamble and first chapter of the 
                constitutions. This was a tough decision for us to make. Our other options including marking
                up the entirety of all of the documents, or limiting it even more to just the preambles. 
                The drawback of doing the entire document was the time limit. Some of the constitutions came out
                to be thousands of lines long, and because we were doing out descriptive markup by hand, this would
                have taken us a long time. However, we seriously considered doing the full texts because by only 
                analyzing the preamble and first chapter, we cannot make full claims about what the constitutions
                as a whole include or leave out, because it may be in a later chapter. We opted to do only the preamble 
                and the first chapter so that we could analyze which themes were most important to each country. 
            </p>
            <p>Our team, to ensure an efficacious work process and acessible reading process, worked
                to define the elements that comprised the analysis of these documents. These
                elements are not all-encompassing, but are instead designed to be applicable to the
                body of text so as to make data collection informative and robust, but also
                efficient.</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <h3>Individual Rights</h3>
                    <p>Refers to any explicit mentions the following individual rights. Does not include 'value' commitments.</p>
                    <h4>Types of Individual Rights</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Protest - Right to petition or demonstrate against the government.</li>
                        <li>Citizenship - Anything pertaining to citizenship, naturalizations, or the explicit privileges of citizens.</li>
                        <li>Assembly - The right to assembly.</li>
                        <li>Legal - Concerning any legal protections such as reference to self-incrimination or indigent defense systems.</li>
                        <li>Vote - Includes explicit reference to the right to vote.</li>
                        <li>Racial-equality - Anything referring to religious, ethnic, gender, racial, etc equality</li> <!-- We should change this to just "equality" -->
                        <li>Liberty - Refers to more abstract mentions of "rights and freedoms" or liberty.</li>
                        <li>Misc - Used to mark other relevant rights, such as healthcare.</li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Nationalism</h3>
                    <p>Includes mentions of national pride, history, patriotism, or responsibility</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Religion</h3>
                    <p>Any mention of religion, it's freedoms, or its role with relation to the
                        state.</p>
                    <h4>Religion Type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Secular - Refers to to either secularism or a separation of church and state.</li>
                        <li>State-religion - Used to mark mentions of a religion or faith that endorsed or even enforced.</li>
                        <li>Neutral - Pertians to more abstract mentions of a god or faith.</li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Government</h3>
                    <p>Marks references to government structure and design that could not have been generally quanitified otherwise.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Sovereignty</h3>
                    <p>Reference to the right of the individual state's right to exist and its sovereign status.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Capital</h3>
                    <p>Explicit designation of a capital city.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Currency</h3>
                    <p>Explicit designation of a currency.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Consent</h3>
                    <p> Pertains to any mention of the consent of the governed. Generally 
                        includes the idea that the government belongs to the people or that state
                        authority lies with the people of the state.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Elections</h3>
                    <p>Reference to electoral proceedings. Not suffrage, but rather what types elections
                        will be held and how.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Separation</h3>
                    <p> Mentions of separation of powers and different branches of government (executive,
                        legislative, judicial).</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Parties</h3>
                    <p>Reference to political parties and their definition, permittance, or
                        prohibition.</p>
                    <h4>Party System</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>0 - Political Parties are not allowed. There are none.</li>
                        <li>1 - This is a one-party state.</li>
                        <li>2 - This is a two-party state.</li>
                        <li>Multi - A plurality of parties may exist in this state.</li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Property</h3>
                    <p>Reference to rights of public or private ownership.</p>
                    <h4>Property Type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Public - Government ownership of property.</li>
                        <li>Private - Private property, may be individual or corporate.</li>
                        <li>Other - Any kind of mixed ownership arrangement between state and private entities.</li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Language</h3>
                    <p>Explicit mention of language.</p>
                    <h4>Language Type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Native - Mention of a language specific to the region or culture of this state.</li>
                        <li>Russian - Mention of the Russian language, which was, for a time, the standardized language of the Soviet Union.</li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>International</h3>
                    <p>Any reference to international politics or association. The role the state
                        intends to have internationally.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Symbols</h3>
                    <p>Official symbols representing the state including flags, anthems, coats of
                        arms, etc.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Peace</h3>
                    <p>Reference to harmony or order.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Treason</h3>
                    <p>Reference to attempts to usurp the powers that be in the state. Any attempt
                        to illegitimately remove established government.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Levels</h3>
                    <p>Mention of levels of government (national, state, local, etc), their powers,
                        and how they interact with one another.</p>
                    <h4>Levels Type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Unitary - The federal government is completely dominant over the states and only allows it specifically enumerated rights.</li>
                        <li>Federalist - The federal government and the state government have specific rights that they share. State is left rights which the federal government doesn't define for itself.</li>
                        <li>Neutral - General reference to the levels of government.</li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <h3>Economy</h3>
                    <p>Explicit definition of a state economic system</p>
                    <h4>Economy Type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Free - Not completely free market, but reference to a capitalist, neo-liberal economy similar to the United States.</li>
                        <li>State - Reference to Socialism, Communism, or any control of the economy by the state.</li>
                        <li>Mixed - In between these two. The state will have more control of the economy than in an average capitalist system, but also allows some relatively greater amount of market activity.</li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section class="Bibliography">
            <h2>Bibliography</h2>
            <hr />
            <ul>
                <li>"Armenia 1995 (rev. 2015)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Armenia_2015.</li>
                <li>"Azerbaijan 1995 (rev. 2016)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Azerbaijan_2016.</li>
                <li>"Belarus 1994 (rev. 2004)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Belarus_2004.</li>
                <li>"Constitution of the Kyrgyz Republic." <em>University of Minnesota Human Rights Library</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. http://hrlibrary.umn.edu/research/kyrgyzrepublic-constitution.html.</li>
                <li>"Estonia 1992 (rev. 2015)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Estonia_2015.</li>
                
                <li>"Georgia 1995 (rev. 2018)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Georgia_2018.</li>
                <li>"Interesting Facts About Ukraine." <em>World Vision</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.worldvision.org.uk/about/blogs/facts-about-ukraine/.</li>
                <li>"Kazakhstan 1995 (rev. 2017)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Kazakhstan_2017.</li>
                
                <li>"Latvia 1922 (reinst. 1991, rev. 2016)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Latvia_2016.</li>
                <li>"Lithuania 1992 (rev. 2019)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Lithuania_2019.</li>
                <li>Meyer, Madeleine. “Language and Geopolitics: A Case Study of the Former Soviet Union.” <em>Towson University Journal of International Affairs</em>, December 14, 2021. https://wp.towson.edu/iajournal/2021/12/08/language-and-geopolitics-a-case-study-of-the-former-soviet-union/.</li>
                <li>"Moldova (Republic of) 1994 (rev. 2016)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Moldova_2016.</li>
                <li>"Russian Federation 1993 (rev. 2014)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Russia_2014.</li>
                <li>Rutland, Peter. “Democracy and Nationalism in Armenia.” <em>Europe-Asia Studies</em> 46, no. 5 (January 1994): 839–61. https://doi.org/10.1080/09668139408412202. </li>
                <li>Schiffman, Harold. “Language Policy in the Former Soviet Union.” Language policy in the former Soviet Union. Accessed April 22, 2024. https://ccat.sas.upenn.edu/~haroldfs/540/handouts/ussr/soviet2.html. </li>
                <li>"Tajikistan 1994 (rev. 2016)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Tajikistan_2016.</li>
                <li>"Turkmenistan 2008 (rev. 2016)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Turkmenistan_2016.</li>
                <li>"Ukraine 1996 (rev. 2016)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Ukraine_2016.</li>
                <li>"Uzbekistan 1992 (rev. 2011)." <em>Constitute Project</em>. Accessed April 26, 2024. https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/Uzbekistan_2011.</li>
              
                
                
                
            </ul>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
