<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styling.css" /><script src="textpage-highlight-javascript.js"></script><title>XSLT for Constitutions</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>An Analysis of the Constitutions of Former Soviet Union States</h1>
      <div class="nav-bar">
         <ul>
            <li><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="about-page.xhtml">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="constitution-page.xhtml">Constitutions</a></li>
            <li><a href="analysis-page.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
            <li><a href="conclusion-page.xhtml">Conclusions</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div><input type="checkbox" id="myCheck" onclick="highlightNationalism()" /><label for="myCheck">Nationalism</label>
      
      <h2>PREAMBLE</h2>
      <p class="preamble">PREAMBLE The Armenian People, accepting as a basis the fundamental principles of
         <span class="soveriegnty"> Armenian statehood</span> and <span class="nationalism" id="nationalism">pan-national
            aspirations</span> enshrined in the Declaration on the Independence of
         Armenia, having fulfilled the sacred behest of its <span class="nationalism" id="nationalism">freedom-loving
            ancestors</span> to restore the <span class="soveriegnty">sovereign state</span>, dedicated to the
         <span class="nationalism" id="nationalism">strengthening and prosperity of the fatherland</span>, with the
         aim of <span class="liberty" id="liberty">ensuring the freedom</span>, <span class="peace">general well-being, and civic solidarity</span> of
         the generations, and affirming its commitment to universal values, adopts the
         Constitution of the Republic of Armenia. </p>
      
      
      <h2>CHAPTER 1. THE FOUNDATIONS OF CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER </h2>
      
      
      
      
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 1.</h3>
         
         <p> The Republic of Armenia is a <span class="soveriegnty">sovereign</span>,
            <span class="gov">democratic</span>, social, and <span class="gov">rule-of-law state</span>.
            </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 2.</h3>
         
         <p> In the Republic of Armenia, <span class="consent">the power belongs to the
               people. The people shall exercise its power</span> through
            <span class="elections">free elections, referenda</span>, as well as
            <span class="neutral">through state and local self-government bodies and
               officials</span> prescribed by the Constitution. <span class="treason">Usurpation of the
               power by any organization or individual shall be a crime</span>. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 3. The Human Being, His Dignity, Fundamental Rights, and Freedoms</h3>
         
         <p>  The human being shall be the supreme value in the Republic of Armenia.
            <span class="liberty" id="liberty">The inalienable dignity of the human
               being shall be the integral basis of his rights and
               freedoms</span>. The respect for and protection of the
            <span class="liberty" id="liberty">fundamental rights and freedoms of the human being and the citizen</span> shall
            be the duties of the public power. <span class="liberty" id="liberty">The
               public power shall be bound by the fundamental rights and freedoms
               of the human being and the citizen as the directly applicable
               law.</span>
            </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 4. The Principle of Separation and Balance of the Powers</h3>
         
         <p> 
            State power shall be exercised in accordance with the
            Constitution and the laws, based on the <span class="separation">separation and balance of the
               legislative, executive, and judicial
               powers</span>. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 5. The Hierarchy of Legal Norms</h3>
         
         <p> The Constitution shall have supreme
            legal force. <span class="gov">Laws shall conform to the constitutional laws, and
               sub-legislative normative legal acts shall conform to the
               constitutional laws and laws.</span> In case there are contradictions
            between the norms of international treaties ratified by the Republic of
            Armenia and the norms of laws, <span class="international">the norms of the
               international treaties shall be applied.</span>
            </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 6. The Principle of Legality</h3>
         
         <p> <span class="unitary">State and local self-government
               bodies and officials shall have the power to perform only such acts
               for which they are empowered by the Constitution or laws</span>.
            Bodies prescribed by the Constitution, based on the Constitution and
            laws and with the purpose of ensuring their implementation, may be
            authorized by the law to adopt sub-legislative normative legal acts.
            Authorizing norms shall comply with the principle of legal certainty.
            Laws and sub-legislative normative legal acts shall come into force
            after being published in the manner stipulated by law. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 7. The Suffrage Principles </h3>
         
         <p> <span class="elections">Elections of the
               National Assembly and community councils, as well as referenda</span> shall be
            carried out on the basis of <span class="vote" id="vote">universal,
               equal, free, and direct suffrage, by secret vote</span>.
            </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 8. &gt;Ideological Pluralism and the Multipartisan System</h3>
         
         <p>
            <span class="multi">
               Ideological pluralism and the multipartisan system shall be
               guaranteed in the Republic of Armenia. Parties shall be formed and
               operate freely.</span> Equal legal opportunities for activities of the
            parties shall be guaranteed by law. <span class="consent">Parties shall promote the
               formulation and expression of the people’s political will</span>. <span class="treason">The
               structure and activities of parties may not contravene the
               democratic principles</span>.
            </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 9. Guaranteeing Local Self-Government</h3>
         
         <p>  <span class="neutral">Local self-government is
               guaranteed in the Republic of Armenia as one of the essential
               foundations of democracy</span>. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 10. Guaranteeing Property </h3>
         
         <p> <span class="other">All forms of
               property shall be recognized and equally protected in the Republic
               of Armenia</span>. <span class="public">Subsoils and
               water resources shall be exclusive property of the State</span>.
            </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 11.  The Economic Order</h3>
         
         <p> The basis of the economic order in the Republic
            of Armenia shall be the <span class="mixed">social market economy</span>, which shall be
            based on <span class="private"> private property,</span>
            freedom of economic activity, free economic competition, and through the
            state policy aimed at general <span class="peace">economic well-being</span> and
            social justice. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 12.  Preservation of the Environment and Sustainable Development </h3>
         
         <p> The
            state shall promote the preservation, improvement, and regeneration of
            the environment, and the reasonable utilization of natural resources,
            governed by the principle of sustainable development and taking into
            account <span class="nationalism" id="nationalism">the responsibility towards future
               generations</span>. Everyone shall take care of the
            preservation of the environment. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 13. Foreign Policy </h3>
         
         <p> <span class="international">The foreign policy of the Republic of
               Armenia shall be conducted on the basis of international law with
               the aim of establishing good-neighborly and mutually-beneficial
               relations with all states. </span></p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 14.The Armed Forces and Defense</h3>
         
         <p>  The armed forces of the Republic of
            Armenia shall ensure the <span class="soveriegnty">defense, security, and territorial
               integrity of the Republic of Armenia</span>, and the
            inviolability of its borders. The armed forces of the Republic of
            Armenia shall maintain neutrality in political matters and shall be
            under civilian control. Every citizen shall
            be obliged to participate in the defense of the Republic of Armenia
            in the manner stipulated by law. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 15.  Promotion of Culture, Education, and Science, Protection of the
            Armenian language and Cultural
            Heritage</h3>
         
         <p>The state shall promote the development of
            <span class="nationalism" id="nationalism">culture</span>, education, and science. <span class="native">The Armenian language</span> and the <span class="nationalism" id="nationalism">cultural
               heritage</span> shall be under the care and protection of the state. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 16.Protection of the Family</h3>
         
         <p>  Family, being the natural and fundamental
            cell of society and the basis for the preservation and reproduction of
            the population, as well as motherhood and childhood shall be under
            special protection and aegis of the state. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 17.The State and Religious Organizations</h3>
         
         <p>  <span class="secular">The freedom of activity of religious
               organizations</span> shall be guaranteed in the Republic of
            Armenia. <span class="secular">Religious organizations shall
               be separate from the state</span>. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 18. The Armenian Apostolic Holy Church </h3>
         
         <p>The Republic of Armenia shall
            recognize the <span class="state-religion">exceptional mission of
               the Armenian Apostolic Holy Church, as the national
               church</span>, in the spiritual life of the Armenian people, in
            the development of its <span class="nationalism" id="nationalism">national culture, and in the
               preservation of its national identity. </span> The
            relationship between the Republic of Armenia and the Armenian Apostolic
            Holy Church may be regulated by a law. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 19.Ties with the Armenian Diaspora </h3>
         
         <p> The Republic of Armenia shall carry
            out a policy aimed at <span class="nationalism" id="nationalism">developing comprehensive ties and
               preserving Armenianness with the Armenian Diaspora</span>,
            and shall facilitate repatriation. Based on international law, the
            Republic of Armenia shall contribute to <span class="native">protecting the
               Armenian language </span><span class="nationalism" id="nationalism">and Armenian historical and cultural values in
               other countries</span>, and advancing Armenian educational
            and cultural life in such countries. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 20.The State Language of the Republic of Armenia </h3>
         
         <p> <span class="native">The
               Armenian language shall be the state language</span> of the Republic of
            Armenia. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 21.The Symbols of the Republic of Armenia </h3>
         
         <p> <span class="symbols">The flag of the
               Republic of Armenia shall be tricolor - with equal horizontal
               stripes of red, blue, and orange.</span>
            <span class="symbols">The coat of arms of the Republic of Armenia shall depict, in
               the center on a shield, Mount Ararat with Noah’s ark and the coats
               of arms of the four kingdoms of historical Armenia. The shield is
               held by an eagle and a lion, while a sword, a branch, a sheaf, a
               chain, and a ribbon are depicted below the shield.</span> The
            detailed description of the flag and the coat of arms shall be
            stipulated by law. <span class="symbols">The anthem of the Republic of Armenia shall
               be stipulated by law.</span>
            </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 22.The Capital of the Republic of Armenia </h3>
         
         <p> <span class="capital">The capital of the
               Republic of Armenia is Yerevan. </span></p>
         </div><br />
      
      
      </body>
</html>