<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styling.css" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="transformation-styling.css" /><script src="textpage-highlight-javascript.js"></script><title>XSLT for Constitutions</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>An Analysis of the Constitutions of Former Soviet Union States</h1>
      <div class="nav-bar">
         <ul>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="about-page.xhtml">About</a></li>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="constitution-page.xhtml">Constitutions</a></li>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="analysis-page.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="conclusion-page.xhtml">Conclusions</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="sidenav">
         <ul>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="armenia-xslt-test.xhtml">Armenia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="azerbaijan-xslt.xhtml">Azerbaijan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="belarus-xslt.xhtml">Belarus</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="estonia-xslt.xhtml">Estonia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="georgia-xslt.xhtml">Georgia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="kazakhstan-xslt.xhtml">Kazhakstan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="kyrgyzstan-xslt.xhtml">Kyrgyzstan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="latvia-xslt.xhtml">Latvia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="lithuania-xslt.xhtml">Lithuania</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="moldova-xslt.xhtml">Moldova</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="russia-xslt.xhtml">Russia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="tajikstan-xslt.xhtml">Tajikistan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="turkmenistan-xslt.xhtml">Turkmenistan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="ukraine-xslt.xhtml">Ukraine</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="uzbekistan-xslt.xhtml">Uzbekistan</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="check-box">
         <h4>Check a box to highlight an element: </h4>
         <ul>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckOne" onclick="highlightNationalism()" /><label for="myCheckOne">Nationalism</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckTwo" onclick="highlightLiberty()" /><label for="myCheckTwo">Liberty</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckGov" onclick="highlightGov()" /><label for="myCheckGov">Government</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckCitizenship" onclick="highlightCitizenship()" /><label for="myCheckCitizenship">Citizenship</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckVote" onclick="highlightVote()" /><label for="myCheckVote">Vote</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckProtest" onclick="highlightProtest()" /><label for="myCheckProtest">Protest</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckAssembly" onclick="highlightAssembly()" /><label for="myCheckAssembly">Assembly</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckLegal" onclick="highlightLegal()" /><label for="myCheckLegal">Legal</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckRace" onclick="highlightRace()" /><label for="myCheckRace">Racial Equality</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckMisc" onclick="highlightMisc()" /><label for="myCheckMisc">Misc Rights</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckCapital" onclick="highlightCapital()" /><label for="myCheckCapital">Capital</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckSymbols" onclick="highlightSymbols()" /><label for="myCheckSymbols">Symbols</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckRussian" onclick="highlightRussian()" /><label for="myCheckRussian">Russian Language</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckNative" onclick="highlightNative()" /><label for="myCheckNative">Native Language</label></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="text">
         
         <h2>PREAMBLE</h2>
         <p class="preamble"> PREAMBLE The Azerbaijan people,<span class="nationalism"> continuing the traditions of many centuries of
               their Statehood</span>, guided by the principles which are reflected in the Constitutional Act
            on the State Independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan, wishing
            to provide <span class="peace">welfare for all and everyone</span>, and to <span class="liberty">establish justice, freedom, security,</span> and being aware of <span class="nationalism">their
               responsibility before past, present, and future generations</span>, <span class="soveriegnty">exercise their sovereign
               right by solemnly declaring the following goals: to protect the independence,
               sovereignty and the territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan;</span><span class="gov"> to guarantee
               the democratic system within the framework of the Constitution; to achieve the
               realization of a civil society; to establish a law-governed,</span> <span class="secular">secular state</span> which assures
            the supremacy of the law as an <span class="consent">expression of the will of the people</span>; <span class="peace">to assure to all a
               decent level of life</span> in accordance with a just economic and social order; <span class="peace">to live under
               conditions of friendship, peace and safety with other peoples</span>, maintaining a commitment
            to general human values and to implement a mutually beneficial cooperation for these
            purposes. For the sake of the above stated high intentions, <span class="elections">this Constitution shall be
               adopted through a nationwide referendum.</span></p>
         
         
         <h2>FIRST PART. GENERAL PROVISIONS Chapter I. The Power of the
            People</h2>
         
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 1. Source of Power</h3>
            
            <p> <span class="consent">The Azerbaijan people are the sole source of State
                  power in the Republic of Azerbaijan</span>.<span class="nationalism"> The Azerbaijan people include
                  citizens of the Republic of Azerbaijan that live in the territory of the
                  Republic of Azerbaijan or outside the country and that obey the
                  Azerbaijan State and its Laws.</span><span class="international"> This does not exclude norms defined by
                  the international law.</span></p>
            </div><br />
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 2. The Sovereignty of the People</h3>
            
            <p><span class="soveriegnty"> The Azerbaijan people have the
                  sovereign right to freely and independently decide their fate and to
                  establish the form of its own governance.</span><span class="soveriegnty"> The Azerbaijan people
                  implement their sovereign right</span><span class="elections"> by universal elections-referendum and by
                  their representatives elected on the basis of universal, direct and
                  equal elections by secret and individual ballot.</span></p>
            </div><br />
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 3. Matters to be determined by Referendum </h3>
            
            <p><span class="elections">The Azerbaijan people can
                  settle every matter connected with their rights and interests by
                  referendum</span>. <span class="elections">The below-mentioned matters can only be determined by
                  referendum: The adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of
                  Azerbaijan and the introduction of changes to it. The change of State
                  borders of the Republic of Azerbaijan</span>. <span class="elections">A referendum cannot be held
                  concerning the following matters: Taxes and the state budget; Amnesty
                  and pardon; The election, appointment or confirmation of officials,
                  whose election, appointment or confirmation are within the competence of
                  the legislative organs and (or) the executive power.</span></p>
            </div><br />
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 4. The Right to Represent the People</h3>
            
            <p> <span class="consent"> No one except authoritative
                  representatives elected by the people have the right to represent, speak
                  for and address on behalf of the people.</span></p>
            </div><br />
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 5. The Unity of the People</h3>
            
            <p> <span class="nationalism"> The Azerbaijan people are united. The unity
                  of the Azerbaijan people constitutes the foundation of the Azerbaijan
                  State. The Republic of Azerbaijan is wholly and indivisibly the Homeland
                  for all the citizens of the Republic of Azerbaijan.</span></p>
            </div><br />
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 6. Banning of Power Usurpation</h3>
            
            <p><span class="treason"> No part of the Azerbaijan people,
                  either an individual, or a social group or an organization has the right
                  to usurp the authority of the Azerbaijan people to exercise the power.
                  Power usurpation is the most serious crime directed against the
                  people.</span></p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         
         </div>
   </body>
</html>