<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Conclusions</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styling.css" />
        <style>
            #myDIV {
                width: 100%;
                padding: 50px 0;
                text-align: center;
                background-color: none;
                margin-top: 20px;
            }</style>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>An Analysis of the Constitutions of Former Soviet Union States</h1>
        <div class="nav-bar">
            <ul>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="about-page.xhtml">About</a></li>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="constitution-page.xhtml"
                        >Constitutions</a></li>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="analysis-page.xhtml"
                    >Analysis</a></li>
                <li class="navbar"><a href="conclusion-page.xhtml"
                        >Conclusions</a></li>
            </ul>
        </div>
      
        <p class="paragraph"> Click on each arrow to see conclusions </p>
      
      
            <section>
            <h2>Conclusions</h2>
                
           
                
            
                <h3> Individual Rights</h3>  
                <h4>Observations</h4>
                <p> Regarding individual rights, a generalized observation from
                    our first graph in our analysis page shows that rights were mostly concentrated in the realms of citizenship, racial equality, and liberty, with 40%, 53%, and 93% respective mentions in all of the constitutions. Regarding citizenship and racial equality, it is inferred that countries provide a legal and enshrined  emphasis on the freedom of mobility after the fall of the Soviet Union, considering initiatives in the past like the Independent State Society (CIS) that stressed the significance of each country’s sovereignty separate from Russian interference(Papava, 2008). Specifically with the CIS, a coalition of former Soviet countries outside the Baltic countries formed in 1995, this led to the failure of countries to actually respond to foreign policies regarding citizenship(Papava, 2008); as a result, the individual right to citizenship and racial equality mentioned in current renditions of constitutions highlight that despite Post-soviet countries establishing their sovereignty, there is still an altruistic obligation to suit the deployment of economic and human capital across their borders and are expected to hold that collective exchange. This is further emphasized with the GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development established in 1997 by Georgia, Ukraine and Azerbaijan that set a new trend of regional integration with other post-soviet countries(Sanchez,2022). </p> 
                
                    <details>
                        <summary>  <strong><em>This might not always be the
                            case!</em></strong>  </summary> 
                        
                        <p>Although liberties under our individual rights tag was
                            higher than 50 %, the freedom house score graph directly compares each country’s mentions of individual freedoms (which are mostly characterized as general rights that fall underneath a citizen’s right to governmental protection) to determine if each country’s current sociopolitical environment supports that reasoning. Although the percentage of the right to protest is already low, amongst other rights implying the right to outwardly oppose against the government, this displays that post-former states have generally met the criteria required to be considered free. For instance, free and independent media’s status has been labelled to fall under “strict, Soviet-style controls” (Cepoi, 2021), with Russia and Belarus elucidating those restrictions. Although the Russian constitutions guarantee freedom of expression, it recieved a 1 out of 6 for media protection on Freedom House due to legislative restrictions on both mass media enterprises and online publications(Freedom House, 2023). <em>This reveals that although an analysis of each category of individual rights can be explicitly mentioned in this first chapter, this must be compared to their real-world applications to determine if the current government actually reflects similar sentiments. </em></p>
                    </details>   
                <details>
                    <summary>  <strong><em>Further Research</em></strong>  </summary> 
                    
                    <p> The small percentages allocated to voting rights and gender equality was concluded to be something worth researching into beyond the scope of the first chapter, with how early or how often those rights are mentioned could possibly place those rights to a similar degree to that of individual rights attributed to liberty. Since both coincide with universal suffrage, it would also be interesting to view this in comparison to the Soviet Union, which granted women the right to vote in 1912 (Rukhlman), and compare that to how women’s suffrage or even the scope of gender rights are portrayed in each country’s constitution respectively. 
                    </p>
                </details>   
                
                
                <h3>Nationalism and Some Further Connections</h3>             
                <p>With liberty rights mentioned overwhelming in all constitutions, it is likely that the words we tagged as this attribute were generalized, and served as a broader and more conclusive representation of ideals that pair with the nationalism graph also seen in the analysis. An astute observation of each would prove that the constitutions crafted individual liberties to arise from the sovereignty of the nation, rather than a distinct category. This result can be seen with countries like Armenia and Ukraine, having a high number of mentions in the nationalism graph while also having this enshrined with the most mentions of individual rights. On the World Press Freedom Index, this puts these countries on on the “partly free”  tier compared to the “not free” category other countries like Russia and Kyrgyzstan are on (World Press Freedom Index). To counter this, comparing this to a country on a lower tier of freedom from the same index, Russia has a slightly lower number of nationalism mentions but higher mentions of freedom, yet according to a 2019 poll by independent newspaper the Moscow Times, over 59% of Russians felt that the Soviet government "took care of ordinary people” compared to Russia’s current state. (The Moscow Times, 2019) 
                </p>
               
               
               
          



        </section>
    </body>
</html>
