<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title></title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Methods</h1>
        <h2>Elements</h2>
        <p>Our team, to ensure an efficacious work process and acessible reading process, worked to define the elements that comprised the analysis of these documents. These elements
            are not all-encompassing, but are instead designed to be applicable to the body of text so as to make data collection informative and robust, but also efficient.</p>
        <ul>
            <li>
                <h3>ind_rights</h3>
                <p>Any guarantee of individual rights.</p>
                <h4>ind_type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>protest</li>
                        <li>citizenship</li>
                        <li>assembly</li>
                        <li>legal</li>
                        <li>vote</li>
                        <li>racial-equality</li> <!-- estonia religion -->
                        <li>liberty</li>
                        <li>misc</li>
                    </ul>                    
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>nationalism</h3>
                <p>Any mention of national pride, history, patriotism, or responsibility</p>   
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>religion</h3>
                <p>Any mention of religion, it's freedoms, or its role with relation to the state.</p>
                <h4>r_type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>secular</li>
                        <li>state-religion</li>
                        <li>neutral</li>
                    </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>gov</h3>
                <p>Miscellaneous reference to government role and design.</p>
                
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>sovereignty</h3>
                <p>Reference to the right of the individual state's right to exist.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>capital</h3>
                <p>Explicit designation of a capital city.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>currency</h3>
                <p>Explicit designation of a currency.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>consent</h3>
                <p>The consent of the governed. Anything that references that government or power lies with the people of the state.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>elections</h3>
                <p>Reference to electoral proceedings. Not suffrage, but rather what elections will be held and how.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>separation</h3>
                <p>Separation of powers, different branches of government (executive, legislative, judicial).</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>parties</h3>
                <p>Reference to political parties and their definition, permittance, or prohibition.</p> <!-- Maybe change to part-type -->
                <h4>p_type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>0</li>
                        <li>1</li>
                        <li>2</li>
                        <li>multi</li>
                    </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>property</h3>
                <p>Reference to rights of public or private ownership.</p>
                <h4>prop_type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>public</li>
                        <li>private</li>
                        <li>other</li>
                    </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>language</h3>
                <p>Explicit mention of a specific language.</p>
                <h4>lang_type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>native</li>
                        <li>russian</li>
                    </ul>    
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>international</h3>
                <p>Any reference to international politics or association. The role the state intends to have internationally.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>symbols</h3>
                <p>Official symbols representing the state including flags, anthems, coats of arms, etc.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>peace</h3>
                <p>Reference to harmony or order.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>treason</h3>
                <p>Reference to attempts to usurp the powers that be in the state. Any attempt to illegitimately remove established government.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>levels</h3>
                <p>Mention of levels of government (national, state, local, etc), their powers, and how they interact with one another.</p>
                <h4>l_type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>unitary</li>
                        <li>federalist</li>
                        <li>neutral</li>
                    </ul>      
            </li>
            <li>
                <h3>economic</h3>
                <p>Explicit definition of a state economic system</p>
                <h4>e_type</h4>
                    <ul>
                        <li>free</li> <!-- Maybe should add - how we think of free -->
                        <li>state</li>
                        <li>mixed</li>
                    </ul>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</html>