<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styling.css" />
      <title>XSLT for Constitutions</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h2>PREAMBLE</h2>
      <p class="preamble">PREAMBLE With unwavering faith and a steadfast will to strengthen and develop
         the state, which embodies the <span class="soveriegnty">inextinguishable right of the people of
            Estonia to national self-determination</span> and which was proclaimed on 24
         February 1918, which is founded on <span class="gov">liberty, justice and the rule of law</span>,
         which is created to protect the peace and defend the people against aggression
         from the outside, and which forms a pledge to present and future generations
         for their social progress and welfare, which must guarantee the preservation of
         the Estonian people, <span class="native">the Estonian
            language</span> and the <span class="nationalism">Estonian culture through the
            ages</span>, the people of Estonia, on the basis of Article 1 of the
         Constitution which entered into force in 1938, and in the
         referendum held on 28 June 1992, have adopted the following
         Constitution. </p>
      
      
      <h2>CHAPTER I. GENERAL PROVISIONS</h2>
      
      
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 1 </h3>
         
         <p>Estonia is an <span class="soveriegnty">independent and sovereign
               </span><span class="gov">democratic republic</span> wherein the
            supreme power of state is vested in the people.
            <span class="soveriegnty">The independence and sovereignty of Estonia are
               timeless and inalienable</span>. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 2</h3>
         
         <p> The land, territorial waters and airspace of the Estonian state are
            an inseparable and indivisible whole. Estonia is politically a unitary state wherein <span class="gov">administrative
               division shall be provided by law</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 3</h3>
         
         <p> The state authority shall be exercised solely pursuant to the
            Constitution and laws which are in conformity therewith.
            Generally recognized principles and rules of
            international law are an inseparable part of the Estonian legal
            system. Laws shall be published in the prescribed
            manner. Only published laws have obligatory force. </p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 4 </h3>
         
         <p>The <span class="gov">activities of the Riigikogu (Parliament of Estonia), the
               President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic, and the
               courts</span> shall be organized on the principle of
            separation and balance of powers.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 5 </h3>
         
         <p>The natural wealth and resources of
            Estonia are national riches which shall be used
            economically.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 6</h3>
         
         <p> The official <span class="native">language of Estonia is
               Estonian </span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 7</h3>
         
         <p>The national colors of Estonia are blue, black and
            white. The design of the national flag and the
            national coat of arms shall be provided by law.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      
      </body>
</html>