<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styling.css" />
      <title>XSLT for Constitutions</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      
      <h2>PREAMBLE</h2>
      <p class="preamble">PREAMBLE<span class="consent"> We, the people of Kazakhstan,</span><span class="nationalism">united by common historic fate, creating
            state on the indigenous Kazakh land</span>, <span class="peace">considering ourselves peace-loving</span> and civil
         society, dedicated to the ideals of freedom, equality and concord, wishing to take
         worthy place in the world community, realizing <span class="nationalism">our high responsibility before the
            present and future generations</span>, proceeding from <span class="soveriegnty">our sovereign right</span>, accept this
         Constitution.</p>
      
      
      
      <h2>SECTION I. GENERAL PROVISIONS</h2>
      
      
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 1</h3>
         
         
         <p>The Republic of Kazakhstan proclaims itself <span class="gov">democratic</span>,
            <span class="secular">secular</span>, legal and social
            state whose highest values are an <span class="liberty">individual, his life, rights and freedoms.</span> The
            fundamental principles of the activity of the Republic are <span class="peace">public
               concord and political stability</span>; economic development for the benefit of
            all the nation; <span class="nationalism">Kazakhstan patriotism</span> and <span class="gov">resolution of the
               most important issues of the affairs of state by democratic methods</span>
            <span class="elections">including voting at an all-nation referendum or in the
               Parliament.</span></p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 2</h3>
         
         <p>
            The Republic of Kazakhstan is <span class="unitary">unitary state</span> with <span class="gov">presidential form
               of government</span>. <span class="soveriegnty">The sovereignty of the Republic extends to its
               entire territory. The state ensures the integrity, inviolability and
               inalienability of its territory.</span> The administrative-territorial
            division of the Republic, the status of its capital shall determine
            by law. <span class="capital">Capital of Kazakhstan is the city of Astana</span>. A
            special legal regime in the financial sphere may be established within 
            the city of Astana in accordance with the constitutional law.
            <span class="soveriegnty">The names “Republic of Kazakhstan” and “Kazakhstan” 
               have the same meaning</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 3</h3>
         
         <p><span class="consent">The people shall be the only source of state
               power.</span>
            <span class="elections">The people shall exercise power directly through an
               all-nation referendum and free elections</span> as well as <span class="consent">delegate the
               execution of their power to state institutions</span>. <span class="treason">Nobody
               shall have the right to appropriate power in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
               Appropriation of power shall be persecuted by law</span>. <span class="consent">The right to
               act on behalf of the people and the state</span><span class="gov"> shall belong to the
               President as well as to Parliament of the Republic</span> within the limits
            of the constitutional powers.
            The government and other state bodies shall act on behalf of
            the state only within the limits of their delegated authorities. The
            state power in the Republic of Kazakhstan is unified and executed on
            the basis of the Constitution and laws in accordance with the
            principle of <span class="separation">its division into the legislative, executive and
               judicial branches and system of checks and balances that governs
               their interaction</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 4</h3>
         
         <p>The provisions of the Constitution, the laws corresponding to it,
            other regulatory legal acts,<span class="international"> international treaty and other commitments</span>
            of the Republic as well as regulatory resolutions of Constitutional
            Council and the Supreme Court of the Republic shall be the functioning
            law in the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Constitution shall have the
            highest juridical force and direct effect on the entire territory of the
            Republic.<span class="international"> International treaties ratified by the Republic shall have
               priority over its laws. The procedure and conditions of the application
               in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of international treaties
               to which Kazakhstan is a party are determined by the legislation of the 
               Republic. All laws, international treaties of which the Republic is
               party shall be published</span>. Official publication of regulatory legal acts
            dealing with the <span class="liberty">rights, freedoms and responsibilities of citizens shall
               be necessary condition for their application</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 5</h3>
         
         <p> The Republic of Kazakhstan shall recognize ideological and
            political
            diversity. <span class="0">The formation of political party
               organizations in state bodies shall not be permitted. Public
               associations shall be equal before the law.</span> Illegal
            interference of the state in the affairs of public associations and of
            public associations in the affairs of the state, imposing the functions
            of state institutions on public associations shall not be permitted.
            <span class="0">Formation and functioning of public associations
               pursuing the goals or actions directed toward violent change of the
               constitutional system, violation of the integrity of the Republic,
               undermining the security of the state, inciting social, racial,
               national, religious, class and tribal enmity, as well as formation
               of unauthorized paramilitary units shall be prohibited.</span>
            <span class="international">Activities of political parties and trade unions of other states,
               religious parties as well as financing political parties and trade
               unions by foreign legal entities and citizens, foreign states and
               international organizations shall not be permitted in the
               Republic.</span> <span class="international">Activities of  foreign</span><span class="state-religion"> religious associations on the territory of
               the Republic as well as appointment of heads of religious
               associations in the Republic by foreign
               religious
               centers shall be carried out in coordination with the respective
               state institutions of the Republic.</span></p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>&gt;Article 6</h3>
         
         <p><span class="public">The Republic of Kazakhstan shall
               recognize and by the same token protect state</span><span class="private"> and private property</span>.
            <span class="other">Property shall impose obligations, and its use must simultaneously
               benefit the society. Subjects and objects of ownership, the scope
               and limits of the rights of proprietors, and guarantees of their
               protection shall be determined by law.</span><span class="public"> The land and underground
               resources, waters, flora and fauna, other natural resources shall be
               owned by the state.</span> <span class="private">The land may also be privately owned on terms,
               conditions and within the limits established by
               legislation.</span></p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 7</h3>
         
         <p><span class="native">The state language of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be
               the Kazak language </span>. <span class="russian">In state institutions and local
               self-administrative bodies the Russian language shall be officially
               used on equal grounds along with the Kazak language</span>. <span class="native">The state shall
               promote conditions for the study and development of the languages of
               the people of Kazakhstan</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 8</h3>
         
         <p><span class="international">The Republic of Kazakhstan shall respect principles
               and norms of international law, pursue the policy of cooperation and
               good-neighborly relations between states, their equality and
               non-interference in each other’s domestic affairs, peaceful
               settlement of international disputes and renounce the first use of
               the military force</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 9</h3>
         
         <p><span class="symbols">The Republic of Kazakhstan shall have its state symbols -
               the flag, emblem and anthem</span>. Their description and order of official
            use shall be established by the constitutional law.
            </p>
         </div><br />
      
      
      
      </body>
</html>