<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styling.css" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="transformation-styling.css" /><script src="textpage-highlight-javascript.js"></script><title>XSLT for Constitutions</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>An Analysis of the Constitutions of Former Soviet Union States</h1>
      <div class="nav-bar">
         <ul>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="about-page.xhtml">About</a></li>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="constitution-page.xhtml">Constitutions</a></li>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="analysis-page.xhtml">Analysis</a></li>
            <li class="navbar"><a href="conclusion-page.xhtml">Conclusions</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="sidenav">
         <ul>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="armenia-xslt-test.xhtml">Armenia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="azerbaijan-xslt.xhtml">Azerbaijan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="belarus-xslt.xhtml">Belarus</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="estonia-xslt.xhtml">Estonia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="georgia-xslt.xhtml">Georgia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="kazakhstan-xslt.xhtml">Kazhakstan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="kyrgyzstan-xslt.xhtml">Kyrgyzstan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="latvia-xslt.xhtml">Latvia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="lithuania-xslt.xhtml">Lithuania</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="moldova-xslt.xhtml">Moldova</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="russia-xslt.xhtml">Russia</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="tajikstan-xslt.xhtml">Tajikistan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="turkmenistan-xslt.xhtml">Turkmenistan</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="ukraine-xslt.xhtml">Ukraine</a></li>
            <li class="sidebar"><a href="uzbekistan-xslt.xhtml">Uzbekistan</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="check-box">
         <h4>Check a box to highlight an element: </h4>
         <ul>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckOne" onclick="highlightNationalism()" /><label for="myCheckOne">Nationalism</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckTwo" onclick="highlightLiberty()" /><label for="myCheckTwo">Liberty</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckGov" onclick="highlightGov()" /><label for="myCheckGov">Government</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckCitizenship" onclick="highlightCitizenship()" /><label for="myCheckCitizenship">Citizenship</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckVote" onclick="highlightVote()" /><label for="myCheckVote">Vote</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckProtest" onclick="highlightProtest()" /><label for="myCheckProtest">Protest</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckAssembly" onclick="highlightAssembly()" /><label for="myCheckAssembly">Assembly</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckLegal" onclick="highlightLegal()" /><label for="myCheckLegal">Legal</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckRace" onclick="highlightRace()" /><label for="myCheckRace">Racial Equality</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckMisc" onclick="highlightMisc()" /><label for="myCheckMisc">Misc Rights</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckCapital" onclick="highlightCapital()" /><label for="myCheckCapital">Capital</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckSymbols" onclick="highlightSymbols()" /><label for="myCheckSymbols">Symbols</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckRussian" onclick="highlightRussian()" /><label for="myCheckRussian">Russian Language</label></li>
            <li class="colors"><input type="checkbox" id="myCheckNative" onclick="highlightNative()" /><label for="myCheckNative">Native Language</label></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="text">
         
         <h2>PREAMBLE</h2>
         <p class="preamble"> PREAMBLE WE, the plenipotentiary representatives of the people of the Republic of
            Moldova, members of the Parliament, STARTING from the age-old aspirations of our people
            to live in a <span class="soveriegnty">sovereign country</span>, expressed by the
            <span class="soveriegnty">proclamation of independenc</span>e of the Republic of Moldova,
            TAKING DUE ACCOUNT to the <span class="nationalism">continuity of the Moldavian people statehood
               within the historical and ethnic framework of its growing as a nation</span>,
            STRIVING to satisfy the <span class="peace">interests of citizens of a different ethnic origin, which
               together with the Moldavians, constitute the Republic of Moldova people</span>,
            CONSIDERING the rule of <span class="misc">law, civic peace, democracy, human
               dignity, fundamental human rights and freedoms, the free development of human
               personality, justice </span>and <span class="multi">political pluralism as
               supreme values</span>, BEING AWARE of our responsibility and obligations towards
            the previous, present and future generations, REASSERTING our devotion to overall
            human
            values and <span class="peace"> desire to live in peace and harmony with all world-wide
               peoples</span>, in compliance with the <span class="international">unanimously acknowledged
               principles and norms of the international law</span>We herewith adopt the
            Constitution of the Republic of Moldova, and declare it as the SUPREME LAW OF OUR
            SOCIETY AND STATE. </p>
         
         
         <h2> TITLE I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES </h2>
         
         
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 1. State of the Republic of Moldova </h3>
            
            <p> The Republic of Moldova is a <span class="soveriegnty">sovereign, independent,
                  unitary and indivisible state</span>. The <span class="gov">form of
                  government of the State is the republic</span>. The Republic of
               Moldova is <span class="gov">a democratic and governed by the rule of law
                  State</span>, in which <span class="liberty">human dignity,
                  his/her rights and freedoms, the free development of human
                  personality</span>, justice and <span class="multi">political pluralism</span> represent supreme values and shall be
               guaranteed.</p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 2. Sovereignty and State power (
               
               </h3>
            
            <p>
               <span class="soveriegnty"> National sovereignty resides with the people of the
                  Republic of Moldova</span>, who shall directly and through
               its <span class="consent"> representative bodies exercise it in the manners provided
                  for by the Constitution</span>. <span class="treason">Neither an individual
                  person or a group of people, nor a social group, a political party
                  or any other public organization may exercise the State power on
                  their own behalf</span>. <span class="treason">The usurpation of the State
                  power shall constitute the gravest crime against the
                  people.</span>
               </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 3. Territory</h3>
            
            <p>
               <span class="soveriegnty">The territory of the Republic of Moldova is
                  inalienable</span>. The borders of the country shall be
               sanctioned by an organic law <span class="international">under the observance of
                  unanimously recognized principles and norms of the international
                  law</span>. </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 4. Human rights and freedoms </h3>
            
            <p> Constitutional provisions on <span class="liberty">human
                  rights and freedoms</span> shall be interpreted and enforced
               in <span class="international">accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human
                  Rights, other conventions and treaties to which the Republic of
                  Moldova is a party</span>. Wherever disagreements appear
               between the conventions and treaties on fundamental human rights to
               which the Republic of Moldova is a party and its domestic laws,
               <span class="international">priority shall be given to international
                  regulations</span>. </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 5. Democracy and political pluralism </h3>
            
            <p> Democracy in the Republic of Moldova shall be exercised under the
               conditions of <span class="separation">political pluralism, which is incompatible
                  with the dictatorship or totalitarianism</span>. <span class="treason">No
                  ideology may be instituted as official ideology of the
                  State</span>. </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 6. Separation and cooperation of powers </h3>
            
            <p> In the Republic of Moldova the legislature, the
               <span class="separation">executive and the judiciary shall be
                  separate</span> and cooperate in the exercise of the assigned
               prerogatives pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution. </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 7. Constitution - the Supreme Law</h3>
            
            <p> The Constitution of the Republic of Moldova shall be the Supreme
               Law of the State.<span class="consent"> No law or any other legal act, which
                  contravenes the provisions of the Constitution, shall have legal
                  force</span>. </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 8. Observance of the international law and international
               treaties</h3>
            
            <p> The Republic of Moldova <span class="international">pledges to observe the
                  Charter of the United Nations Organization and the treaties to which
                  it is a party, to institute relationships with other states on the
                  basis of unanimously recognized principles and norms of the
                  international law.</span> The coming into force of an
               international treaty containing provisions contrary to the Constitution
               shall be preceded by a revision of the latter. </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 9. Fundamental principles regarding property</h3>
            
            <p> Property shall be <span class="public">public</span>
               and <span class="private">private</span>. It shall be
               constituted of material and intellectual goods. No property may be used
               to the <span class="misc">prejudice of human
                  rights</span>, <span class="liberty">liberties and
                  dignity</span>. The market, <span class="free">free
                  economic initiative
                  and fair
                  competition shall represent the main elements of the
                  economy.</span>
               </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 10. Unity of the people and the right to national
               identity</h3>
            
            <p>
               <span class="soveriegnty">The State foundation is laid on the unity of the Republic
                  of Moldova people. The Republic of Moldova is the common and
                  indivisible motherland of all its citizens. </span>
               <span class="racial-equality">The State shall recognize and
                  guarantee the right of all citizens to the preservation, development
                  and expression of their ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious
                  identity.</span>
               </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 11. Republic of Moldova - a neutral State</h3>
            
            <p>
               <span class="international">The Republic of Moldova proclaims its permanent
                  neutrality</span>.
               The Republic of Moldova <span class="soveriegnty">shall not allow the dispersal of
                  foreign military troops on its territory</span>. </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 12. Symbols of the State</h3>
            
            <p>
               <span class="symbols">The Republic of Moldova has a flag, coat of arms and anthem.
                  The State flag of the Republic of Moldova shall be a tricolour. The
                  colours are arranged vertically in the following order from the
                  flagpole: blue, yellow, and red. The coat of arms is printed on the
                  central yellow stripe of the tricolour. The State coat of arms shall
                  consist of a shield divided horizontally into two parts: the upper
                  part being of a red chromatics and the lower part - blue chromatics
                  with a superimposed auroch's head showing between its horns an
                  eight-pointed star. On its right the auroch's head is flanked by a
                  five-petalled rose, and on its left by a slightly rotated crescent.
                  All heraldic elements present on the shield are of golden (yellow)
                  colour. The shield is laid on the breast of a natural eagle holding
                  in its beak a golden cross, in its right claw a green olive-tree
                  branch and in its left claw a golden sceptre. The State anthem of
                  the Republic of Moldova shall be established by organic law. The
                  flag, coat of arms and anthem shall be considered the State symbols
                  of the Republic of Moldova and shall be protected by law as
                  such.</span>
               </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 13. State language, use of other languages</h3>
            
            <p> <span class="native">The State language in the Republic of Moldova is the Moldavian
                  language, and its writing is based on the Latin alphabet</span>.
               <span class="russian">The State shall acknowledge and protect the right to
                  the preservation, development and use of the Russian language and
                  other languages spoken within the territory of the
                  State.</span> The State shall <span class="international">facilitate the
                  study of languagesof widespread international usage</span>.
               The manner of functioning of languages within the territory of the
               Republic of Moldova shall be established by organic law. </p>
            </div><br />
         
         <div>
            
            <h3>Article 14. Capital</h3>
            
            <p> The capital of the Republic of Moldova is the city of
               <span class="capital">Chisinau</span>. </p>
            </div><br />
         
         
         
         </div>
   </body>
</html>