<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styling.css" />
      <title>XSLT for Constitutions</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h2>PREAMBLE</h2>
      <p class="preamble">PREAMBLE We, the multinational people of the Russian Federation, united by a
         common fate on our land, <span class="liberty">establishing human rights and freedoms</span>,<span class="peace"> civil peace and accord</span>,
         <span class="nationalism">preserving the historically established State unity</span>,<span class="soveriegnty"> proceeding from universally
            acknowledged principles of equality and self-determination of peoples</span>,<span class="nationalism"> revering the
            memory of ancestors who have passed on to us their love for the Fatherland and faith
            in
            good and justice</span>,<span class="soveriegnty"> reviving the sovereign statehood of Russia</span> and <span class="gov">asserting the firmness
            of its democratic basis</span>, striving to ensure the<span class="peace"> well-being and prosperity</span> of Russia,
         <span class="nationalism">proceeding from the responsibility for our Fatherland before present and future
            generations</span>,<span class="international"> recognizing ourselves to be a part of the world community</span>, do hereby adopt
         THE CONSTITUTION OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.</p>
      
      
      <h2>SECTION ONE CHAPTER 1. THE BASIS OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL SYSTEM</h2>
      
      
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 1</h3>
         
         <p><span class="gov">The Russian Federation - Russia is a democratic federative
               law-governed state with a republican form of government</span>.<span class="soveriegnty"> The names
               Russian Federation and Russia are equivalent</span>.</p> 
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 2</h3>
         
         <p>Man, his rights and freedoms shall be the supreme value. The
            recognition, observance and <span class="liberty">protection of human and civil rights and
               freedoms shall be an obligation of the State</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 3</h3>
         
         <p><span class="soveriegnty">The bearer of sovereignty</span> and <span class="consent">the sole source of power in the
               Russian Federation shall be its multinational people</span>. The people shall
            exercise its power directly, as well as <span class="neutral">through State government bodies
               and local self-government bodies</span>. <span class="elections">The supreme direct expression of the
               power of the people shall be referendum and free elections</span>. <span class="treason">Nobody may
               usurp power in the Russian Federation. The seizure of power or
               usurpation of State authority shall be prosecuted</span> under federal
            law.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 4</h3>
         
         <p><span class="soveriegnty">The sovereignty of the Russian Federation shall extend to the
               entirety of its territory</span>.<span class="gov"> The Constitution of the Russian Federation
               and federal laws shall have supremacy on the entire territory of the
               Russian Federation</span>.<span class="soveriegnty"> The Russian Federation shall ensure the integrity
               and inviolability of its territory</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 5</h3>
         
         <p><span class="gov">The Russian Federation shall consist of republics, krays, oblasts,
               cities of federal significance, an autonomous oblast and autonomous
               okrugs, which shall have equal rights as constituent entities of the
               Russian Federation. A republic (state) shall have its own constitution
               and legislation. A kray, oblast, city of federal significance,
               autonomous oblast and autonomous okrug shall have its own charter and
               legislation. The federal structure of the Russian Federation shall be
               based on its State integrity, the unity of the system of State power</span>,
            <span class="separation">the division of matters of authority and powers between State government
               bodies of the Russian Federation and State government bodies of
               constituent entities of the Russian Federation,</span> <span class="liberty">the equality</span> and
            <span class="soveriegnty">self-determination of peoples in the Russian Federation</span>. All constituent
            entities of the Russian Federation shall be equal with one another in
            relations with federal State government bodies.</p>
         
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 6</h3>
         
         <p><span class="citizenship"> Citizenship of the Russian Federation shall be acquired and
               terminated in accordance with federal law, and shall be one and equal,
               irrespective of the grounds on which it is acquired. Every citizen of
               the Russian Federation</span> shall enjoy all <span class="liberty">rights and freedoms</span> on its
            territory and shall bear equal responsibilities as envisaged in the
            Constitution of the Russian Federation. <span class="citizenship">A citizen of the Russian
               Federation may not be deprived of his (her) citizenship or of the right
               to change it</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 7</h3>
         
         <p> The Russian Federation shall be a social state whose policy is
            aimed at creating conditions ensuring a worthy life and a free
            development of Man.<span class="misc"> In the Russian Federation the labour and health of
               people shall be protected, a guaranteed minimum wage shall be
               established, State support shall be provided for the family, maternity,
               fatherhood and childhood, to the disabled and to elderly citizens, the
               system of social services shall be developed and State pensions,
               allowances and other social security guarantees shall be
               established</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 8</h3>
         
         <p> <span class="private">In the Russian Federation the integrity of economic space, free
               flow of goods, services and financial resources, support of competition,
               and the freedom of economic activity shall be guaranteed</span>. <span class="public"> In the Russian
               Federation private, State, municipal and other forms of property shall
               be recognized and shall be protected on an equal basis</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 9</h3>
         
         <p> Land and other natural resources shall be utilized and protected in
            the Russian Federation as the basis of the life and activity of the
            peoples living on the territories concerned. <span class="private">Land and other natural
               resources may be subject to private</span>,<span class="public"> State, municipal</span><span class="other"> and other forms of
               ownership.</span></p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 10</h3>
         
         <p><span class="separation"> State power in the Russian Federation shall be exercised on the
               basis of its division into legislative, executive and judicial
               authority. Bodies of legislative, executive and judicial authority shall
               be independent</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 11</h3>
         
         <p> State power in the Russian Federation shall be exercised by the
            President of the Russian Federation, the Federal Assembly (the Council
            of Federation and the State Duma), the Government of the Russian
            Federation, and the courts of the Russian Federation. State power in
            constituent entities of the Russian Federation shall be exercised by
            bodies of State government formed by those constituent entities. <span class="unitary">The 
               division of authorities and powers among State government bodies of the
               Russian Federation and State government bodies of constituent entities
               of the Russian Federation shall be established</span> by this Constitution, the
            Federation Treaty and other treaties on the division of authorities and
            powers.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 12</h3>
         
         <p> <span class="neutral">Local self-government shall be recognized and guaranteed in the
               Russian Federation</span>. Local self-government shall be independent within
            the limits of its competence. Bodies of local self-government shall not
            form part of the system of State government bodies.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 13</h3>
         
         <p> Ideological diversity shall be recognized in the Russian
            Federation. <span class="multi">No ideology shall be proclaimed as State ideology or as
               obligatory. Political diversity and the multi-party system shall be
               recognized in the Russian Federation. Public associations shall be equal
               before the law</span>. The establishment and activities of public associations
            whose goals and activities are aimed at the forcible changing of the
            basis of the constitutional order and at violating the integrity of the
            Russian Federation, at undermining its security, at creating armed
            units, and at instigating social, racial, national and religious strife
            shall be prohibited.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 14</h3>
         
         <p> <span class="secular">The Russian Federation shall be a secular state. No religion may be
               established as the State religion or as obligatory. Religious
               associations shall be separate from the State and shall be equal before
               the law</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 15</h3>
         
         <p> <span class="gov">The Constitution of the Russian Federation shall have supreme legal
               force, direct effect and shall be applicable on the entire territory of
               the Russian Federation. Laws and other legal acts, which are adopted in
               the Russian Federation, must not contradict the Constitution of the
               Russian Federation. State government bodies, local self-government
               bodies, officials, citizens and their associations shall be obliged to
               observe the Constitution of the Russian Federation and laws. Laws must
               be officially published. Unpublished laws shall not have force.</span><span class="liberty"> Any
               normative legal acts concerning human and civil rights, freedoms and
               obligations shall not have force unless they have been officially
               published for the information of the general public.</span>
            <span class="international">Universally recognized principles and norms of international law as well as
               international agreements of the Russian Federation should be an integral
               part of its legal system</span>. <span class="international">If an international agreement of the Russian
               Federation establishes rules, which differ from those stipulated by law,
               then the rules of the international agreement shall be applied</span>.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      <div>
         
         <h3>Article 16</h3>
         
         <p> The provisions of this Chapter of the Constitution shall constitute
            the fundamental principles of the constitutional order of the Russian
            Federation and may not be changed except in accordance with the
            procedure established by this Constitution. No other provisions of this
            Constitution may conflict with the fundamental principles of the
            constitutional order of the Russian Federation.</p>
         </div><br />
      
      
      
      </body>
</html>